.TH jed 1 "16 Dec 2025" "jedjmon" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jed \- JEDJMON Hans Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jed
.RI [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
JED is a small modal terminal text editor inspired by vim features.
It supports VIEW and EDIT modes, an inline command buffer (e.g. `fn file`, `fn add file`, `fn del file`, `s`, `q`, `qs`, `jl <N>`, `jel <N>`, `jfl <N>`, `jml <N>`),
a basic undo/redo, and simple swap-file based crash recovery.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
fn <file>
Open or create <file> (swap recovery is offered if a swap exists).
.TP
s
Save current buffer to the current filename (or default file if none).
.TP
q
Quit (prompts to save if there are unsaved changes).
.TP
qs
Save and quit.
.TP
browse
Open the interactive file browser overlay: press a number to open a file or enter a directory. Use PageUp/PageDown (page) to change pages. Backspace (Back) deletes the currently-typed selection and acts as "go back" when the selection is empty; when used at the initial directory it shows a hint—use q or Esc to cancel. Selecting a file opens it into the current editor buffer (non-destructive). The `:browse` command has a single-letter alias `:b`.
You may choose to open the file in the current tab (unsaved changes will be lost unless you save first), open it in a new tab, or cancel.

Additionally, while browsing you can press (d) to delete the selected file or directory; a confirmation is required and the browser refreshes after a deletion.

While in the browser, selecting a file initially prompts: (t) New Tab / (o) Current Tab / (c) Cancel. If you choose Current Tab and the current file has unsaved changes, you will be prompted to either save or discard:

(s) Save changes and open file

(d) Discard unsaved changes and open file

(c) Cancel

.TP
tabs
List open tabs with their numeric indices.

.TP
tab <N>
Switch to tab N (1-based). Compact forms without a space are accepted (e.g. "tab1" or "tab 1").

.TP
tabc <N>
Close tab N (1-based). Compact forms without a space are accepted (e.g. "tabc1" or "tabc 1").

.TP
tabc
Close the current tab (equivalent to `tabc<current index>`).

.TP
?
Open the help page in its own tab. The help page shows section headers (colored in the UI) and can be closed with the `tabc` command (e.g. `tabc1`).

.SH EXAMPLES
.B jed test.c
Open or create test.c in JED.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the JED project.
